Let's go ahead and begin building our Meck character first of all I think I'd like to just delete all
of these objects out of the scene.
I don't need these.
Ultimately we'll need a camera and lights.
But for now they're just going to get in the way to de-select an object.
You just press the A key and then you press the key again and then you will toggle the selection of
all the objects in the scene.
The key just toggles your selection on and off.
So if you select an object you can de-select the object by pressing the a key.
So I'm going to hit the key then hit the x key to delete and then click delete.
So now we've got a clean scene ready to go here.
Let's take a look at that reference image of the character.
I think what I'll do is begin with this main body piece here.
So the first thing I'll do is go over to the Tools panel over here which you can hide or reveal by pressing
the T key or by clicking this little plus icon here and that will bring up the Tools panel.
I'm going to go to the Create tab and here we've got a list of all the things that we can create in
our scene.
I'm just going to create a basic cube now.
And what I'm going to do is use this basic cube to try and get that shape of the main body of the Mac.
So many use two different modifiers on this as I go.
So I'm going to come over here to the Properties window and this little wrench here is the modifiers
panel and if you click add modifier you get a lot of possible modifiers that you could add to your objects.
The one I'm interested right now is this subdivision surface modifier So if I click on that it will
smooth the object.
Granted it's not real smooth at this point in time but if I increase the view if I increase the number
of subdivisions in the view here you can see that as I do it gets smoother and smoother so I'm going
to want to use this to get that smooth round shape for the body but I'll also want to be able to modify
the object symmetrically So as I edit one side of the object I went the other side of the object to
follow along.
So to do that I want to use the mirror modifier.
But first I'm going to need to delete half of this because of falling a mere half I need to only have
one side.
So what I want to do is split the object in half.
So these buttons here allow you to view the effects of the modifier in the render or in the view here.
Now if I look at the cube here in Object mode and go to hit that by hitting the tab key I can see that
there are no edges in here.
I need to split this in half.
So what I'm going to do is just press control our hover over the cube click once and click one more
time to confirm that.
And that places an edge right down the center of the cube.
So now I can press control tab and go into face mode.
And now I want to select one side of this and delete it so I can mirror it over.
So to select all of these faces I could just select and press shift and keep clicking here.
Like so another way to do that I'm going to press the A key to de-selected those.
Another way to do that is to press the Z key to go into wireframe.
And now I can border select all of these if I press the Beaky I get this kind of here and I can click
and drag and it will create a border selection and now we'll select all those faces.
So now press the Z key again to go back to shaded view here.
Now I can press the x key and delete faces.
All right.
So I'm gonna hit the tab key to go back to object mode.
And now if I turn my subdivision services modifier back on you can see I have this now.
All right so now I'm going to create a mirror modifier for this.
I'm going to click add modifier and go to a mirror and you can see that it doesn't do anything.
Why doesn't it do anything.
Well it's because the axis is set to the x axis here if I turn that off and turn on y.
You can see it Meir's it over in the y axis.
Now I don't really want that I want it to mirror in the x axis cause as we model and rig our character
ultimately when we mirror the rig over when we do constraints and everything like that we're going to
want the character to be facing us with the arms out toward the x axis.
So I need to actually turn this 90 degrees I actually inserted the edge loop in the wrong place but
that's an easy fix.
We can press the end key to go to the properties panel here and in the rotation fields we can rotate
90 degrees around the z axis so I can actually click and drag in here and rotate around the z axis so
I want it actually 90 I want it to be negative 90 here.
Now you may have it correct.
You may already have it the way it needs to be but I need to do this to get it to where it's oriented
in the proper direction.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete the mere modifier for the time being and then I need to apply the
rotations here.
I need to have this be zeros so that the local axis of the object matches the global or the world axis
of Arsene.
So to do that I'm going to press control a and apply the rotation and notice there it zeroes out the
rotation in the z axis.
Now when I come back and add that mirror modifier again.
And now with the x axis selected you can see that it's mirroring over in the correct direction.
All right so they closed the properties panel and in the subdivisions going to increase that to say
to here.
So now if I press the tab key I can go into edit mode and you can see here that it's got both the smoothed
mesh and kind of a ghost image of the original.
So what I'm going to do is come over here to the subdivision surfaces modifier and just click this or
just edit cage button and that will then allow me to see the points directly on the object itself.
Now you can see when I click to select these this manipulator tool is still out here where the original
one would be and that's fine for now.
So now we can begin selecting these points and moving them around and modifying the shape of our object.
But if I click on this point and I move it say the x axis look what happens.
It actually breaks apart to undo that with control or command Z here.
So to keep the pieces from splitting apart down the middle I can come over here to the mirror modifiers
tab and turn on clipping right here.
So now if I select that point and move it around you can see it only moves up and down and it it doesn't
split out from the other side.
All right I'm going to begin modifying this to try and make that basic shape of the of the character
here.
So to do that I'll go to face mode and I'll begin just dragging these around to try and get a basic
shape here and I may need to add some edge loops as I as I go here so I'll hit control r and add an
edge loop down the center here and that allows me to select this edge and maybe move it out a bit and
I'm just switching from face mode to edge mode and just trying to get the shape that I want nuff I want
to just like this whole edge around here instead of just one edge.
I can press Allt and then click and select that edge and that will select that entire loop of edges
around the object.
Now I can move that whole thing up or down here and I'm just trying to do this with as few faces and
edges as I can.
At this point in time just to get the basic shape enough I go back to object mode and increase the views
here.
You can see I'm beginning to get kind of a rounded shape here with kind of as few edges as I can because
the more geometry I put on this the harder it's going to be to manipulate.
All right so there is the basic shape so far of the main body portion.
So in the next video I'll begin creating the other pieces of the MC.
The front glass piece and maybe the arms.